{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author Luke S. Hart}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13140\viewh16580\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 The Goal:
\f1\b0 \
\
tl;dr: create non-violent alternative to scalable social institutions.\
\
To start, the similarity to preexisting institutions is intentional.  When developing something new, it is easiest to pattern it off of prior work, for example, the automobile (especially early ones) were similar to horse drawn carriages.  At the very least, I believe this will make for an easier sell.\
\
Anyway, to address your first question, the goal of PSAs is to totally eliminate violence from the fundamentals of social organization.  Not necessarily violence itself (which is likely impossible, and may not even be desirable), though by offering means of conflict resolution which are comparable to it in effectiveness, it should reduce that as well.\
\
Basically, I want to give people a means to resolve their disputes that isn\'92t ultimately backed by a man with a gun.  What I presented in my booklet is merely my own vision for how such a society might look and function.  I tried to focus on creating something with inherit flexibility, so it could naturally evolve into a form which best fits the circumstances of our world.\
\
As for why not focus on reforming existing states?  For starters, I\'92m a literal nobody, but more importantly, because they are already planning to do this (e.g. the Social Credit system in China).  The problem is, the state is doing this in order to cement their power, and will be retaining the violent core at the heart of it.  Basically, there will be no element of choice, just the tendrils of state power infiltrating every aspect of your life.\
\
Whether or not they will succeed is another question, but I would very much like to avoid finding out altogether, by beating them to the punch.\
\
Before I move on, I want to address one(?) specific point in your opening.  Police are not in the security business.  Their explicit purpose is maintaining the state, and imposing its dictates.  Private security is meant to handle threats and trespassers in a narrowly defined geographic area on behalf of the location\'92s rightful owners.\
\
A rent-a-cop might throw you out of a mall for swimming in the fountain, but they will not break down your door at  2 am because you sell plants the mall owners don\'92t approve of (or at least, if they do, you would be well justified in shooting them, and would have a tort against the mall owners).\
\
I guess it was more than one specific point.  You lay the charge that I am advocated for a rule based society, to which I say, \'93Guilty as charged.\'94  That  does not mean there cannot be spontaneous order, either.  The internet is *very* rule based (and must be in order to operate at all), but still provided ample opportunity for spontaneity.  My goal is to provide the simplest set of rules such that a large group of strangers can cooperate.  The only one I believe is necessary is the one regarding \'93responsibility\'94, the others were merely provided as suggestions.  Other rule sets may be possible, or even preferable.\page 
\f0\b How to Build:
\f1\b0 \
\
tl;dr: start small.  ~ a dozen or so people can make a \'93prototype village\'94 and then the project is functionally similar to a joint real estate venture and insurance company.\
\
Oh man, did you sum up the fucking problem real well.  And what\'92s worse is that I couldn\'92t possibly be less well suited to be this idea\'92s self-appointed champion.\
\
Anyway, although your assessment of human nature is as truthful as it is uncharitable, as a mitigating factor, PSA\'92s don\'92t actually require much in the way of ideological buy in.  In fact, at scale, all it requires is prince sensitive consumers, which is widely regarded to be the majority of people.  So much so, in fact, that companies will wast valuable engineering/development time and money to make packaging smaller without looking like they did, rather than just increase the sticker price.\
\
At the smaller/immediate level (aka, getting started), things are more problematic, but I do have one thing going for me.  To get things going, I don\'92t think I need to convince any more than a dozen or so reasonably competent people that it\'92s a good idea.  Not that I\'92ve ever met such a number, but given we aren\'92t living in caves eating slime mold, I\'92m confident they exist.\
\
Convincing them is the hard part.\
\
Thankfully, reading my whole BFA booklet isn\'92t actually necessary.  My goal with it was to create a coherent vision of a possible future, and to head off the most obvious objections I could think of.\
\
The proverbial \'93meat and potatoes\'94 of the idea is just a kind of decentralized court system, which uses associative power rather than violent power to enforce its edicts.  It should otherwise function similarly to any kind of common law court, which, helpfully, has a proven track record of working (at least to the satisfaction of the masses).  It could also be seen as a kind of \'93systemized shunning,\'94 where \'93negative value assets\'94 to society can be identified and disincentivized from doing further harm.\
\
By doing it systematically, rather than informally, it allows the practice to be applied to interactions between two parties who are otherwise strangers (like firms and employees, or landlords and tenants).  This enables scalability and allows PSA society to compete with more \'93traditional\'94 statist ones.\
\
Anyway, that\'92s your first point, your second is, in may ways, far easier, because you made it under a faulty premise.\
\
I do not believe humans desire to be free.  Experience has taught me that they desire a feeling of \'93safety\'94 and \'93stability\'94, and also, to do as little working and thinking as they can possibly get away with.  PSAs are designed for just such a people.  From a business/managers perspective, a PSA is functionally similar to a bank or insurance company (both of which, coincidentally, are already very similar).  Given that both such firms exist in abundance, I am confident that the related PSA is also possible to both start and operate.\
\
From a consumer perspective, the sell is pretty easy.  If you are a worker, this lets you get a job and an apartment.  If you are a landlord, this lets you hold tenants liable for damages they may cause and to to terms of your lease.  If you are the manager of a firm, this gives you some recourse if your new hire steals all the staples on their first day.\
\
Or, to put this all another way, PSA\'92s are not bothered by humans desire to control one another, because it allows them to do so.  It merely limits the scope of their control to only what they can exert through association.  I, at least, have no problems with any people choosing not to associate with any other people, for any reason.\
\
The sell to the masses is not, and is not intended to be, \'93freedom.\'94  It is merely, \'93safety, at a superior price.\'94  The fact that the design, by its nature, will allow greater freedom is what makes it appeal to me, but, to be honest, I couldn\'92t possibly care less if I was literally the only person on this planet who wanted it.\
\
Hell, for me, it\'92s not even freedom. I just don\'92t want to be forced to share a society with people I despise, and the statist model does not appear inclined to allow that.\
\
I think the most promising aspect of the PSA system is precisely because it does not, strictly speaking, require any ideological buy in whatsoever, just some minimum efficacy of self interest.\
\
To specifically address the various mobs.  You claim the PSA-world is not for those people, but I disagree.  The PSA world allows the \'93Trad-cons\'94 and the \'93woke-brigade\'94 and such on the flexibility to ensure as much compliance to their ideals as they can get a reasonably sized customer base to stomach.  And, if no such customer base exists, it\'92s hard for me to see how there could then be a sizable number of people who want to live in such a society.\
\
Not that I particularly care either way.  The statist world doesn\'92t afford those people much if any real control, but they still seemed to have bought in.  As long as they are as price sensitive as all evidence suggests they will be, then I see no reason to suspect they won\'92t be susceptible to the appeal of a PSA world compared to a Statist one.\page 
\f0\b Maintenance:
\f1\b0 \
\
tl;dr: evolution.\
\
I had a mischievous inkling just to leave it at that, which I think means I need to take a break for today.\
\
Anyway, at least for now, I am going to address your \'93things needed\'94 list, and say I disagree.  Or at least, if I am correct about how PSAs would work, then none of those things are needed whatsoever.  I did not at any point when writing up the BFA booklet think to myself, \'93Okay, this works as long as people are thoughtful, vigilant crusaders of freedom and justice.\'94\
\
In fact, it was my goal with PSAs to create a system that would function acceptably well with the absolute worst sort of piece of shit overblown chimps you could imagine.  If anything, I think it is more likely to have problems if/as people\'92s moral character improves.\
\
My assumption is that every PSA firm, and the PSA Council, are all operated by remorseless sociopaths, and that they would sooner die then bend the knee to a single one of their competitors (or, in the Councils case, to the pesky Associations they are meant to wrangle/extract power and profit from).\
\
The masses don\'92t need to understand PSAs any better than they understand how banks, insurance companies, or cell phones work in order to take advantage, and I would argue any proposed societal framework which requires a moral, thoughtful populous is doomed to failure.\
\
You don\'92t build for the world that you want, you have to build for the one that you have.\
\
Alright, back the next day.  I\'92m going to address your section that started with \'93suppose I\'92m a tyrant.\'94\
\
In this section, we led with the assumption that the \'93PSA-World\'94 was already in place, so I\'92ll work from there, though I think the general principles still apply somewhat if we start with a \'93mixed-system\'94 world.\
\
Anyway, suppose you are a tyrant.  And let\'92s even suppose you have some convenient way to drive the people to madness, no questions asked.\
\
Okay, great, now, you have a whole bunch of dubious value sheep to gather into your flock.\
\
And so does every wannabe tyrant sociopath on the planet.  And, in fact, some of those sociopaths want to de-sheep your sheep, because they are offering objectively the best service.  And some of those sociopaths don\'92t care one way or another, they just want to expand the market share of their association because it makes them feel important.  Now some clown just went and expended a great fortune making a whole group of people, most of whom were probably their own customers (hence, why they had a sufficient degree of influence to \'93drive them mad\'94 in the first place), exceptionally susceptible to advertising.\
\
Our wannabe tyrant has just bared his throat to the most ruthless people on the planet, almost certainly a great personal expense.  In the resulting (social) carnage, a great many Associations may increase their market share, but our wannabe tyrant will be lucky to escape the conflict with his dignity intact.  He\'92s equally likely to end up flipping burgers for the rest of his days, after generating an incredible number of torts against himself (such as, from his investors, who expected him to make money, not squander their funds on delusions of empire).\page 
\f0\b Corruption:
\f1\b0 \
\
The PSA Council is not intended to be, nor do I consider it likely to be, anywhere near as important and you seem to imagine.  To understand, consider what exactly it is the Council is actually bringing to the table.\
\
Number one.  They exist.  Number two.  They are generally considered trustworthy.\
\
That\'92s it, that\'92s all they have.  I did not intend for them to have any special power or privileges, beyond being able to say \'93yes, you are a member,\'94 and \'93no, you are not.\'94\
\
If the PSA Council is behaving reasonably, and not pissing off their customer base (PSAs, who, by the way, are largely going to be managed by the sorts of ruthless bastards who run banks and insurance companies), then I expect there won\'92t be much demand for more of them.\
\
If some big time PSA get\'92s screwed over by the Council in a dispute with another one, they are going to have ample motivation to either pressure them into walking it back, or else forming a new Council on their own, and they can point to the recent injustice in their marketing copy to the other PSAs.\
\
Depending on how egregious their offense, this puts the offending PSA in (proverbial) mortal peril.  The new council is almost certain to exclude them, and will likely be incentivized to lower their rates for the express purpose of killing them (and the corrupt council).  If the PoS PSA is not a member of that new council (and it becomes more successful than the first one), their value proposition to their customers declines, which means shrinking marketshare, which means less money, less marketing, less word of mouth, etc.\
\
And what\'92s more, the pay off for their act of corruption is 0.  The PSA Council has only one power, who they associate with.  If, for some reason, they are bribed into a bogus judgement, the offended party merely has to say, \'93Okay, bye,\'94 and no funds will be exchanged.\
\
That\'92s not so say there is unlikely to be corruption, but is more likely to be directed at associates (i.e. individuals) for small time pay-offs, and even then, will mostly be handled by the existence of competing firms offering what is essentially a commodity service.  If you get screwed over by your bank, yeah, you\'92ll probably lose money, but they lose a customer, and more importantly, gain someone who will actively badmouth them at every opportunity.\
\
A few of those don\'92t matter, but enough of them will, and what\'92s more, other PSA\'92s have an incentive to amplify those voices in order to steal marketshare.\page 
\f0\b Growth of power:
\f1\b0 \
\
tl;dr: honestly, this one is just evolution again.  Really, all of them are, now that I think about it\'85\
\
In this section you\'92ve laid out a scenario, but in doing so you\'92ve imbued a bad actor with what is essentially supernatural power.  They have some inherit ability to \'93gain influence\'94 without any regard for their own resources.\
\
I will freely admit, that, against a solitary supernatural agent bent on world domination, PSAs offer no special protection.\
\
However, in order for any part of your scenario to play out absent such power, we first have to identify some practical mechanism for them to accrue influence.\
\
Let us suppose, as you do, that we have a PSA bent on world domination.  We will even ignore my assumption that actually, that\'92s all of them, and instead act as though every other PSA is only interested in offering their customers the best service at the lowest price.\
\
Now, in order to expand their influence, Evil Corp wants to, as you say, be the best PSA on the continent.  Okay, fine, they succeed.\
\
Now, Evil Corps is the best, because they have some novel feature that no other PSA possesses.\
\
Other PSA\'92s start losing customers.  Curious, they investigate where they are going, and it\'92s to EvilCorps.  They see EvilCorps novel feature, and copy it.\
\
EvilCorps is no longer gaining influence.\
\
Even if we suppose they can repeat this process, at some point EvilCorps is going to run out of ways to improve, and thus, out of ways to poach customers and expand their influence, unless we\'92re willing to grant them supernatural efficacy in service improvements.\
\
This also ignores the very real possibility that other companies can develop novel improvements that EvilCorps does not, and also the fact that, put simply, some people will refuse to associate with other people.  There are some people who EvilCorps could literally offer to pay them to join, who would refuse so long as EvilCorps forced them into association with their despised demographic.\
\
The rest of your scenario follows from the assumption that the above plot somehow succeeds.  From there on it certainly could follow as you\'92ve described, but if a necessary prerequisite for a PSA style society to fail is that magic exists, and it\'92s on the side of the assholes, then I think it makes for a pretty appealing option.\
\
Also, reading though, it was not clear you understood that PSAs are meant to be poly-centric, i.e. not (necessarily) geographically isolated from one another.  The notion a PSA somehow has exclusive/majority domain over any particular resource is not one that I would consider even remotely self-evident.\
\
This trend away from this kind of resource centralization under PSAs is further compounded by the relationship between PSAs and the PSA council.\
\
You see, it is in the Council\'92s best interest to have as large a number of PSA\'92s as possible, in order to prevent any single firm from having an oversized influence on them.  This means the barrier to entry for starting a PSA and joining the Council will be as low as is feasible, likely not much more than a generally positive reputation and a dream.\
\
Even if some PSA does have a local dominance, their ability to capitalize on it will be threatened by the ever looming specter of new firms which can spring up from every club, sports team, church, bar, or shop.  That\'92s not even counting external firms, ever hungry for increasing market share.\
\
A PSA monopoly on a scale larger than a small town is something I would have to see to believe.  The Association system is meant to work with, and be enhanced by, human tribalism.  The notion some population large enough to be dangerous could be unified around some central ideology without need a bunch of guns to force them together does not seem likely.\
\
The only similar incidents in history all centered around powerful institutions of violence, who were granted special moral privileges to inflict that violence at their own discretion.  And even those incidents had an abundance of internal fractures.\
\
In the PSA world, there would be an abundance of firms looking to take advantage of, and widen, those fractures.  And thanks to the poly-centric nature of PSAs, there will not be any natural barriers to do so.\
\
Moving to another country is hard, switching cell phone carriers is easy, and PSAs are much much closer to the latter.\page 
\f0\b Infiltration:
\f1\b0 \
\
tl;dr: PSAs are already \'93the solution\'94\
\
I think I am going to address your proposed scenario by walking though a very similar one.\
\
Suppose there is a CEO for a bank who wants to increase their power by making \'93X\'94 the enemy class.  Let us even suppose they are charismatic to convince all their non-X customers of such.\
\
CEO: \'93X is the enemy!\'94\
\
Customers:  \'93Indeed they are, drive them from the company!\'94\
\
CEO: \'93I have done so!  Now no X can be a customer (of our company)\'94\
\
Customers: \'93Hurray!  We\'92re saved from X!  Their sinister ways can affect us no more!\'94\
\
CEO: \'93Excellent, now I\'92m doubling your rate to make up for the lost revenue!\'94\
\
Customers: \'93Eh, to be honest, Not-X-But-Cheap is offering the same great no-X service, but at a lower price.  Bye.\'94\
\
CEO:  \'93Crap, now I have to double the price again.\'94\
\
Customers: repeats the above until the CEO is just a guy in an office who\'92s rent he can\'92t pay.\
\
This same general principle holds no matter what duty the CEO attempts to extract from their customers.  It\'92s all well and good for people to hate X, they will generally prefer to have their contempt at the lowest possible price.  So long as humans continue to be greedy, short sighted, self interested chimps it will be difficult to do anything with that hatred other than create \'93No-X\'94 companies.\
\
But that is PSAs working as intended.  I have no desire to force people to associate with people they hate, even if their hatred is stupid, irrational, and entirely artificial.\
\
Further more, PSA\'92s actually have a strong incentive not to do this.  Even in your scenario, you can see the rapidly plummeting customer base.  If some aspiring tyrant is looking to dominate the world, it seems unlikely they would favor the strategy of rapidly diminishing their own power.\page 
\f0\b Conclusion:
\f1\b0 \
\
I\'92m not sure how effectively I addressed you concerns.  I think I at least explained why there are natural, and very strong incentives against any of your proposed scenarios being feasible, which hopefully you will find convincing.\
\
I do have one general thought, that I think applies to the angle you took in your critique.\
\
You seemed to be under the impression I believe humans to be fundamentally moral, freedom loving people who are just being held back by the system.\
\
This couldn\'92t be further from the truth.\
\
I think humanity is a teeming mass of contemptible scum.  Greedy, foolish, short sighted, self loathing, thoughtless, spineless, and just generally worthless.  I would never accuse mankind of virtue, and to be honest, am a little offended at the suggestion.\
\
The general concept of PSAs, and the specific principles I suggested, were made in the assumption that humans were, and would continue to be, a bunch of glorified chimps with delusions of grandeur.  At the very least, if I failed to conceive a practical system for such creatures, it was not out of any misguided affection.}